>> Kadi Kraman: The thing you can do
is you can pass in URL parameters,
that was it.
So,
>> Kadi Kraman: What we could do is I was
thinking, if we could deep
link into our plants page and
then automatically posted a plant.
So I don't know, let's say that you build
something where you do an email and
you send a reminder saying
you should water your plant.
And then you press water the plant and
it will deep link into your app, and
it will use an action and
then when you open to this page,
when you have the correct action,
it will automatically trigger the water.
So I think that would be
an interesting use case.
So how do we pass parameters?
Let's use this URL scheme again.
And I want to go to the first plant,
and we want to do action.
But we can pass whatever here but
I'm gonna do an action water,
so this will look like URL
parameters on the web.
For this to work with the terminal,
we need to escape this question mark,
I think, okay.
>> Kadi Kraman: And open on iOS.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, I think this did
nothing because it was already open.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, perfect.
So here, what we want,
we want the LocalSearchParams, I think.
Let's console.log these,
>> Kadi Kraman: See what we get, so open.
>> Kadi Kraman: I get nothing,
I think I need to not be on the screen for
it to work.
>> Speaker 1: I think there's semicolon
until the sense was complaining.
>> Kadi Kraman: Semicolons should be okay,
okay, let me just, there we go.
[LAUGH] It was actually rendered here, let
me start the bundle, so npx expo start.
I think cuz I had two tabs running,
cuz I started iOS and
Android builds at the same time.
Okay, so now we're in the right place and
let's do a deep link.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, so we are getting
action, water, plantId 1, so
the same useLocalSearchParams gives us our
action that we passed in as URL param.
So what we could do is we could
do a little useEffect here.
>> Kadi Kraman: So,
>> Kadi Kraman: Like
this
>> Kadi Kraman: And
we can do if params.action,
if this is water.
>> Kadi Kraman: Then,
let's do waterPlant and plantId.
>> Kadi Kraman: So this is complaining
because the plantId, okay.
So this could be an array
of strings as well,
so let's just add a if statement here.
So if typeof plantId is a string and
it should always be a string.
There's some kind of caveat somewhere.
Okay, then we water the plant.
[COUGH] So this plant has just
been watered because I had this
screen open where I added it.
Okay, let's look at a plant
that's never been watered.
Let's create a new plant, I Want Water.
>> Kadi Kraman: There we go.
So I'm using incremental number,
so this will be Id number 3.
So this plant has never been watered,
look how sad it is.
So let's here do plantId 3.
>> Kadi Kraman: There we go, and
the last water that has been updated.
So it looked at our action
from our URL params.
And something that actually I
didn't talk about in this course,
but you can pass in parameters
between screens the same way.
So here what we do, let's look at
somewhere where we have a link,
so in the PlantCard.tsx.
Okay, so example here, we have an href,
so I could do action water here,
but it's kind of an inconvenient
way to pass new arrow parameters.
So usually, if you want to pass
parameters between screens,
you would do pathname, then params.
So you could do action, water.
>> Kadi Kraman: So I've added this to
the PlantCard, so just for testing.
I guess so it's 37, which is now.
So every time I open a page,
it will immediately water the plant.
This is obviously not what we want, but
just to show you that these params do
work and this is how you pass them in.
Change this back to what we had before.
>> Kadi Kraman: And the other thing when
you want to test these on a real device,
on iOS, it is actually, for
once on iOS it is simpler.
If you open Safari, then you can
write your URL scheme in here, so
you can do plantly//plant/1.
And you'll get this prompt saying,
do you wanna open plantly?
And you say yes, and then it deep
links into it, which is pretty handy.
On Android, deep linking is more annoying.
So if you type this into Google Chrome,
it doesn't work.
And usually, what I've found is you
need a link, like a tag to click.
So this seems a bit silly, but
actually on a real device,
I've found this quite handy,
I have a link somewhere.
If you use one of these websites
where you can live code some HTML.
So did I add this?
>> Kadi Kraman: I thought
I added one here.
>> Kadi Kraman: There we go.
So a website like this where you could
just do an a tag, we go Click me.
And then this will have an href,
which will be like plants.
>> Kadi Kraman: That
was plantly//plants/1.
So then you open this on
your Android phone, and
you clicked it, then it would work.
So it's a bit of a workaround.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
the other thing that's worth knowing, so
this is the kind of a basic insecure
implementation of deep linking.
And for secure and
more integrated deep linking,
you could look at universal and app links.
So this will make your deep links
integrated with your website.
So you know when you have things like
open this page on a mobile app and
you will deep link into it.
So this is basically how you do it.
And it's quite involved, it's not
really a easily workshopable topic,
you need to have a hosted website for
this to work.
And you add the specific
files onto your website and
then register your domain as
an associated domain in your app and
then your app knows that it can
deep link between the domain.
And then it will automatically look at
whether specific schemes are handled.
So this is the documentation if you
want to read more about how it works.